Barack Obama's Family

The Family of Barack Obama is an extended clan of African American, 
English, Indonesian, and Kenyan heritage. They are best known through the 
writings and political career of Barack Obama, the current President of the 
United States of America. His immediate family is the First Family of the 
United States. The Obamas are the first First Family of African American 
descent in the United States and the youngest to enter the White House 
since the Kennedys. Obama's young, energetic family harks back to days of 
Camelot.


In what follows, we give a detailed overview of Barack Obama's Family. We 
shed light on himself, his immediate and extended family, including 
maternal and paternal relations. Moreover, we give insights into the 
relations of Michelle Obama, Barack Obama's wife, as well as some distant 
relations of both.

Barack Obama

Barack Hussein Obama II is the 44th and current President of the United 
States. He is the first African American to hold the office. Obama was the 
junior United States Senator from Illinois from 2005 until he resigned 
following his election to the presidency. Obama is a graduate of Columbia 
University and Harvard Law School. He worked as a community organizer in 
Chicago prior to earning his law degree, and practiced as a civil rights 
attorney in Chicago before serving three terms in the Illinois Senate from 
1997 to 2004. He also taught Constitutional Law at the University of 
Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. Following an unsuccessful bid for a 
seat in the U.S. House of Representatives in 2000, Obama was elected to the 
Senate in November 2004.

Barack Obama was born on 4 August 1961 at the Kapi'olani Medical Center for 
Women & Children in Honolulu, Hawaii, to Ann Dunham of Wichita, Kansas and 
Barack Hussein Obama, Sr. of Nyangoma-Kogelo, Nyanza Province, Kenya. His 
parents met while both were attending the East-West Center of the 
University of Hawaii at Manoa, where his father was enrolled as a foreign 
student. The couple married only 6 months earlier on February 2, 1961.

Childhood and Youth

When Barack Obama was two years old, his parents divorced and his father 
moved to Connecticut to continue his education before returning to Kenya. 
He saw his son only once more before dying in an automobile accident in 
1982.

When Obama was six, his mother married Lolo Soetoro, an Indonesian oil 
manager. In 1967, when Soetoro's student visa was revoked because of 
political unrest in Indonesia, Dunham and Barack, then in first grade, 
accompanied him to Jakarta, Indonesia. Obama's half-sister, Maya Soetoro 
was born after the family moved to Indonesia on 15 August 1970. In 1971, 
Obama was sent back to the United States to live with his maternal 
grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Armour Dunham. Obama's mother returned to 
Hawaii in 1972 for five years, and then in 1977 went back to Indonesia, 
where she worked as an anthropological field worker. She stayed there most 
of the rest of her life, returning to Hawaii in 1994. She died of ovarian 
cancer in 1995.


Of his early childhood, Obama has recalled, "That my father looked nothing 
like the people around me that he was black as pitch, my mother white as 
milk barely registered in my mind." In his 1995 memoir, he described his 
struggles as a young adult to reconcile social perceptions of his 
multiracial heritage. He wrote that he used alcohol, marijuana, and cocaine 
during his teenage years to "push questions of who I was out of my mind." 
During the elections for the Presidency, Obama identified his high-school 
drug use as his greatest moral failure.

Education and Career

Throughout his early years, Obama was known at home and at school as 
"Barry." He attended kindergarten at Noelani Elementary School, near his 
home. During his time in Indonesia, Obama attended local schools in 
Jakarta, from ages 6 to 10, where classes were taught in the Indonesian 
language. He first attended St. Francis Assisi Catholic school for almost 
three years. When his family moved to a new neighborhood, Menteng, he 
attended the secular, government-run SDN Menteng 1school for his fourth 
year. Obama was a Cub Scout while living in Indonesia.

After returning to the United States, he attended Punahou School from the 
fifth grade until his graduation from high school in 1979. Some of his 
fellow students at Punahou School later told the Honolulu Star-Bulletin 
that Obama was mature for his age, and that he sometimes attended college 
parties and other events in order to associate with African American 
students and military service people. Following high school, Obama moved to 
Los Angeles in 1979 to attend Occidental College. After two years he 
transferred in 1981 to Columbia University in New York City, where he 
majored in political science with a specialization in international 
relations. Obama graduated with a B.A. from Columbia in 1983.

After that Obama worked at Business International Corporation and New York 
Public Interest Research Group. After four years in New York City, Obama 
moved to Chicago to work as a community organizer. He worked for three 
years from June 1985 to May 1988 as director of the Developing Communities 
Project (DCP), a church-based community organization originally comprising 
eight Catholic parishes in Greater Roseland (Roseland, West Pullman, and 
Riverdale) on Chicago's far South Side. During his three years as the DCP's 
director, its staff grew from 1 to 13 and its annual budget grew from 
$70,000 to $400,000, with accomplishments including helping set up a job 
training program, a college preparatory tutoring program, and a tenants' 
rights organization in Altgeld Gardens. Obama also worked as a consultant 
and instructor for the Gamaliel Foundation, a community organizing 
institute.

Obama entered Harvard Law School in late 1988. At the end of his first year 
he was selected as an editor of the Harvard Law Review based on his grades 
and a writing competition. In February 1990, his second year at Harvard, he 
was elected president of the law review, a full-time volunteer position 
functioning as editor-in-chief and supervising the law review's staff of 80 
editors. Obama's election as the first black president of the law review 
was widely reported and followed by several long, detailed profiles. He got 
himself elected by convincing a crucial swing bloc of conservatives that he 
would protect their self-interests if they supported him. Building up that 
trust was done with the same kind of long listening sessions he had used in 
the poor neighborhoods of South Side, Chicago. Richard Epstein, who later 
taught at the University of Chicago Law School when Obama later taught 
there, said Obama was elected editor "because people on the other side 
believed he would give them a fair shake."

While in law school he worked as an associate at the law firms of Sidley & 
Austin in 1989, where he met his wife, Michelle, and where Newton N. Minow 
was a managing partner. Minow later would introduce Obama to some of 
Chicago's top business leaders. In the summer of 1990 he worked at Hopkins 
& Sutter. Also during his law school years, Obama spent eight days in Los 
Angeles taking a national training course on Alinsky methods of organizing. 
He graduated with a J.D. magna cum laude from Harvard in 1991 and returned 
to Chicago.

Obama's election as the first black president of the Harvard Law Review 
gained national media attention and led to a publishing contract and 
advance for a book about race relations. In an effort to recruit him to 
their faculty, the University of Chicago Law School provided Obama with a 
fellowship and an office to work on his book. He originally planned to 
finish the book in one year, but it took much longer as the book evolved 
into a personal memoir. In order to work without interruptions, Obama and 
his wife, Michelle, traveled to Bali where he wrote for several months. The 
manuscript was finally published in mid-1995 as Dreams from My Father.

Obama directed Illinois Project Vote from April to October 1992, a voter 
registration drive, officially nonpartisan, that helped Carol Moseley Braun 
become the first black woman ever elected to the Senate. He headed up a 
staff of 10 and 700 volunteers that achieved its goal of 400,000 registered 
African Americans in the state, leading Crain's Chicago Business to name 
Obama to its 1993 list of "40 under Forty" powers to be. Although 
fundraising was not required for the position when Obama was recruited for 
the job, he started an active campaign to raise money for the project. 
According to Sandy Newman, who founded Project Vote, Obama "raised more 
money than any of our state directors had ever done. He did a great job of 
enlisting a broad spectrum of organizations and people, including many who 
did not get along well with one another."

The fundraising brought Obama into contact with the wealthy, liberal elite 
of Chicago, some of whom became supporters in his future political career. 
Through one of them he met David Axelrod, who later headed Obama's campaign 
for president. The fundraising committee was chaired by John Schmidt, a 
white former chief of staff to Mayor Richard M. Daley, and John W. Rogers 
Jr., a young black money manager and founder of Ariel Capital Management. 
Obama also met much of the city's black political leadership, although he 
didn't always get along with the older politicians, with friction sometimes 
developing over Obama's reluctance to spend money and his insistence on 
results.


Obama taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School for 
twelve years, as a Lecturer for four years (1992-1996), and as a Senior 
Lecturer for eight years (1996-2004). During this time he taught courses in 
due process and equal protection, voting rights, and racism and law. He 
published no legal scholarship, and turned down tenured positions, but 
served eight years in the Illinois Senate during his twelve years at the 
university.


In 1993 Obama joined Davis, Miner, Barnhill & Galland, a 12-attorney law 
firm specializing in civil rights litigation and neighborhood economic 
development, where he was anassociate for three years from 1993 to 1996, 
then of counsel from 1996 to 2004, with his law license becoming inactive 
in 2002. The firm was well-known among influential Chicago liberals and 
leaders of the black community, and the firm's Judson H. Miner, who met 
with Obama to recruit him before Obama's 1991 graduation from law school, 
had been counsel to former Chicago Mayor Harold Washington, although the 
law firm often clashed with the administration of Mayor Richard M. Daley. 
The 29-year-old law student made it clear in his initial interview with 
Miner that he was more interested in joining the firm to learn about 
Chicago politics than to practice law. During the four years Obama worked 
as a full time lawyer at the firm, he was involved in 30 cases and accrued 
3,723 billable hours.


Obama was a founding member of the board of directors of Public Allies in 
1992, resigning before his wife, Michelle, became the founding executive 
director of Public Allies Chicago in early 1993. He served on the board of 
directors of the Woods Fund of Chicago, which in 1985 had been the first 
foundation to fund Obama's DCP, from 1993-2002, and served on the board of 
directors of The Joyce Foundation from 1994-2002. Membership on the Joyce 
and Wood foundation boards, which gave out tens of millions of dollars to 
various local organizations while Obama was a member, helped Obama get to 
know and be known by influential liberal groups and cultivate a network of 
community activists that later supported his political career. Obama served 
on the board of directors of the Chicago Annenberg Challenge from 
1995-2002, as founding president and chairman of the board of directors 
from 1995-1999. He also served on the board of directors of the Chicago 
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, the Center for Neighborhood 
Technology, and the Lugenia Burns Hope Center. In 1995 Obama announced his 
candidacy for a seat in the Illinois state Senate and attended Louis 
Farrakhan's Million Man March in Washington, DC.







Obama was elected to the Illinois Senate in 1996, succeeding State Senator 
Alice Palmer as Senator from Illinois's 13th District, which then spanned 
Chicago South Side neighborhoods from Hyde Park-Kenwood south to South 
Shore and west to Chicago Lawn. Once elected, Obama gained bipartisan 
support for legislation reforming ethics and health care laws. He sponsored 
a law increasing tax credits for low-income workers, negotiated welfare 
reform, and promoted increased subsidies for childcare. In 2001, as 
co-chairman of the bipartisan Joint Committee on Administrative Rules, 
Obama supported Republican Governor Ryan's payday loan regulations and 
predatory mortgage lending regulations aimed at averting home foreclosures.


Obama was reelected to the Illinois Senate in 1998, defeating Republican 
Yesse Yehudah in the general election, and was reelected again in 2002. In 
2000, he lost a Democratic primary run for the U.S. House of 
Representatives to four-term incumbent Bobby Rush by a margin of two to 
one.


In January 2003, Obama became chairman of the Illinois Senate's Health and 
Human Services Committee when Democrats, after a decade in the minority, 
regained a majority. He sponsored and led unanimous, bipartisan passage of 
legislation to monitor racial profiling by requiring police to record the 
race of drivers they detained and legislation making Illinois the first 
state to mandate videotaping of homicide interrogations. During his 2004 
general election campaign for U.S. Senate, police representatives credited 
Obama for his active engagement with police organizations in enacting death 
penalty reforms. Obama resigned from the Illinois Senate in November 2004 
following his election to the U.S. Senate.





In mid-2002, Obama began considering a run for the U.S. Senate; he enlisted 
political strategist David Axelrod that fall and formally announced his 
candidacy in January 2003. Decisions by Republican incumbent Peter 
Fitzgerald and his Democratic predecessor Carol Moseley Braun not to 
contest the race launched wide-open Democratic and Republican primary 
contests involving fifteen candidates. Obama's candidacy was boosted by 
Axelrod's advertising campaign featuring images of the late Chicago Mayor 
Harold Washingtonand an endorsement by the daughter of the late Paul Simon, 
former U.S. Senator for Illinois. He received over 52% of the vote in the 
March 2004 primary, emerging 29% ahead of his nearest Democratic rival.


In July 2004, Obama wrote and delivered the keynote address at the 2004 
Democratic National Convention in Boston, Massachusetts. After describing 
his maternal grandfather's experiences as a World War II veteran and a 
beneficiary of the New Deal's FHA and G.I. Bill programs, Obama spoke about 
changing the U.S. government's economic and social priorities. He 
questioned the Bush administration's management of the Iraq War and 
highlighted America's obligations to its soldiers. Drawing examples from 
U.S. history, he criticized heavily partisan views of the electorate and 
asked Americans to find unity in diversity, saying, "There is not a liberal 
America and a conservative America; there's the United States of America." 
Though it was not televised by the three major broadcast news networks, a 
combined 9.1 million viewers watching on PBS, CNN, MSNBC, Fox News and 
C-SPANsaw Obama's speech, which was a highlight of the convention and 
confirmed his status as the Democratic Party's brightest new star.


Obama's expected opponent in the general election, Republican primary 
winner Jack Ryan, withdrew from the race in June 2004. Two months later and 
less than three months before Election Day, Alan Keyes accepted the 
Illinois Republican Party's nomination to replace Ryan. A long-time 
resident of Maryland, Keyes established legal residency in Illinois with 
the nomination. In the November 2004 general election, Obama received 70% 
of the vote to Keyes' 27%, the largest victory margin for a statewide race 
in Illinois history.


Obama was sworn in as a senator on January 4, 2005. Obama was the fifth 
African-American Senator in U.S. history, and the third to have been 
popularly elected. He was the only Senate member of the Congressional Black 
Caucus. CQ Weekly, a nonpartisan publication, characterized him as a "loyal 
Democrat" based on analysis of all Senate votes in 2005-2007. The National 
Journal ranked him as the "most liberal" senator based on an assessment of 
selected votes during 2007; in 2005 he was ranked sixteenth most liberal, 
and in 2006 he was ranked tenth. In 2008, Congress.org ranked him as the 
eleventh most powerful Senator. Obama announced on November 13, 2008 that 
he would resign his senate seat on November 16, 2008, before the start of 
the lame-duck session, to focus on his transition period for the 
presidency. This enabled him to avoid the conflict of dual roles as 
President-elect and Senator in the lame duck session of Congress, which no 
sitting member of Congress had faced since Warren Harding.





Obama voted in favor of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and cosponsored the 
Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act. In September 2006, Obama 
supported a related bill, theSecure Fence Act. Obama introduced two 
initiatives bearing his name: Lugar-Obama, which expanded the Nunn-Lugar 
cooperative threat reduction concept to conventional weapons, and the 
Coburn-Obama Transparency Act, which authorized the establishment of 
USAspending.gov, a web search engine on federal spending. On June 3, 2008, 
Senator Obama, along with Senators Thomas R. Carper, Tom Coburn, and John 
McCain, introduced follow-up legislation: Strengthening Transparency and 
Accountability in Federal Spending Act of 2008.


Obama sponsored legislation that would have required nuclear plant owners 
to notify state and local authorities of radioactive leaks, but the bill 
failed to pass in the full Senate after being heavily modified in 
committee. Obama is not hostile to tort reform and voted for the Class 
Action Fairness Act of 2005 and the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 which 
grants immunity from civil liability to telecommunications companies 
complicit with NSA warrantless wiretapping operations.


In December 2006, President Bush signed into law the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo Relief, Security, and Democracy Promotion Act, marking the first 
federal legislation to be enacted with Obama as its primary sponsor. In 
January 2007, Obama and Senator Feingold introduced a corporate jet 
provision to the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act, which was 
signed into law in September 2007. Obama also introduced Deceptive 
Practices and Voter Intimidation Prevention Act, a bill to criminalize 
deceptive practices in federal elections and the Iraq War De-Escalation Act 
of 2007, neither of which have been signed into law.


Later in 2007, Obama sponsored an amendment to the Defense Authorization 
Act adding safeguards for personality disorder military discharges. This 
amendment passed the full Senate in the spring of 2008. He sponsored the 
Iran Sanctions Enabling Act supporting divestment of state pension funds 
from Iran's oil and gas industry, which has not passed committee, and 
co-sponsored legislation to reduce risks of nuclear terrorism. Obama also 
sponsored a Senate amendment to the State Children's Health Insurance 
Programproviding one year of job protection for family members caring for 
soldiers with combat-related injuries.


On February 10, 2007, Obama announced his candidacy for President of the 
United States in front of the Old State Capitol building in Springfield, 
Illinois. The choice of the announcement site was symbolic because it was 
also where Abraham Lincoln delivered his historic "House Divided" speech in 
1858. Throughout the campaign, Obama emphasized the issues of rapidly 
ending the Iraq War, increasing energy independence and providing universal 
health care.





During both the primary process and the general election, Obama's campaign 
set numerous fundraising records, particularly in the quantity of small 
donations. On June 19, Obama became the first major-party presidential 
candidate to turn down public financing in the general election since the 
system was created in 1976.


A large number of candidates initially entered the Democratic Party 
presidential primaries. After a few initial contests, the field narrowed to 
a contest between Obama and SenatorHillary Clinton, with each winning some 
states and the race remaining close throughout the primary process. On May 
31, the Democratic National Committee agreed to seat all of the disputed 
Michigan and Florida delegates at the national convention, each with a 
half-vote, narrowing Obama's delegate lead. On June 3, with all states 
counted, Obama passed the threshold to become the presumptive nominee. On 
that day, he gave a victory speech in St. Paul, Minnesota. Clinton 
suspended her campaign and endorsed him on June 7. From that point on, he 
campaigned for the general election race against Senator John McCain, the 
Republican nominee.


On August 23, 2008, Obama announced that he had selected Delaware Senator 
Joe Biden as his vice presidential running mate.





At the Democratic National Convention in Denver, Colorado, Obama's former 
rival Hillary Clinton gave a speech in support of Obama's candidacy and 
later called for Obama to be nominated by acclamation as the Democratic 
presidential candidate. On August 28, Obama delivered a speech to 84,000 
supporters in Denver. During the speech, which was viewed by over 38 
million people worldwide, he accepted his party's nomination and presented 
his policy goals.


After McCain was nominated as the Republican presidential candidate, there 
were three presidential debates between Obama and McCain in September and 
October 2008. In November, Obama won the presidency with 53% of the popular 
vote and a wide electoral vote margin. His election sparked street 
celebrations in numerous cities in the United States and abroad.


On November 4, 2008, Barack Obama defeated John McCain in the general 
election with 365 electoral votes to McCain's 173 and became the first 
African American to be elected President of the United States. In his 
victory speech, delivered before a crowd of hundreds of thousands of his 
supporters in Chicago's Grant Park, Obama proclaimed that "change has come 
to America". On January 8, 2009, a joint session of the U.S. Congress 
certified the Electoral College votes, officially declaring that Obama was 
elected President.

















Immediate Family: Michelle, Malia Ann, and Natasha Obama

Michelle LaVaughn Robinson Obama, born Robinson, the wife of Barack Obama, 
was born on January 17, 1964 in Chicago, Illinois. She is a lawyer and was 
a University of Chicago Hospital Vice-President. She is the First Lady of 
the United States.

Michelle Robinson was born to Fraser Robinson III, a city water plant 
employee and Democratic precinct captain, and Marian Shields Robinson, a 
secretary at Spiegel's catalog store. Michelle can trace her roots to 
pre-Civil War African Americans in the American South; her paternal 
great-great grandfather, Jim Robinson, was an American slave in the state 
of South Carolina, where some of her family still reside. She grew up on 
Euclid Avenue in the South Shore community area of Chicago, and was raised 
in a conventional two-parent home. The family ate meals together and also 
entertained together as a family by playing games such as Monopoly and by 
reading. She and her brother, Craig (who is 21 months older), skipped the 
second grade. By sixth grade, Michelle joined a gifted class at Bryn Mawr 
Elementary School (later renamed Bouchet Academy). She attended Whitney 
Young High School, Chicago's first magnet high school, where she was on the 
honor roll four years, took advanced placement classes, was a member of the 
National Honor Society and served as student council treasurer. The round 
trip commute from her South Side home to the Near West Side took three 
hours out of her day. She was a high school classmate of Santita Jackson, 
the daughter of Jesse Jackson and sister of Jesse Jackson, Jr. She 
graduated from high school in 1981 assalutatorian, and went on to major in 
sociology and minor in African American studies at Princeton University, 
where she graduated cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in 1985.

At Princeton, she challenged the teaching methodology for French because 
she felt that it should be more conversational. As part of her requirements 
for graduation, she wrote a thesis entitled, "Princeton-Educated Blacks and 
the Black Community." She obtained her Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree from 
Harvard Law School in 1988. While at Harvard, she participated in political 
demonstrations advocating the hiring of professors who are members of 
minorities. She is the third First Lady with a postgraduate degree, 
following Hillary Rodham Clinton and Laura Bush. In July 2008, Obama 
accepted the invitation to become an honorary member of the 100-year-old 
black sorority Alpha Kappa Alpha, which had no active undergraduate chapter 
at Princeton when she attended.


She met Barack Obama when they were among very few African Americans at 
their law firm, Sidley Austin, and she was assigned to mentor him while he 
was a summer associate. Their relationship started with a business lunch 
and then acommunity organization meeting where he first impressed her. The 
couple's first date was to the Spike Lee movie Do the Right Thing. The 
couple married in October 1992.




Together they raise two daughters, Malia Ann Obama , born in 1999, and 
Natasha (Sasha) in 2001 in their home in Chicago, Illinois. Michelle serves 
as the alpha parent in the relationship because Barack's political 
commitments as a United States Senator require him to work from Tuesday to 
Thursday in Washington DC. Described as a real life Claire Huxtable, many 
observers commend Michelle's ability to juggle motherhood, a galant career 
as a lawyer, and wife to a junior United States Senator. In order to do 
this, she and the kids follow a strict schedule that even allocates time 
for play. While serving as an executive for the University of Chicago 
Hospital, her children attend a school connected to the facility.

Before the 2008 Presidential campaign began, the entire Obama family 
congregated together at the Trinity United Church of Christ each Sunday. In 
January 2008, Michelle took a leave of absence from her post to open her 
date book for a more active schedule campaigning for her husband's 
presidency.


Extended Family: Maternal Relations

The maternal relations of Barack Obama can be traced back generations. His 
mother was Ann Dunham who, after separating from his father, married Lolo 
Soetoro. The two of them had another child, his half-sister Maya Soetoro. 
The maternal grandparents of Barack Obama are Madelyn Dunham and Stanley 
Dunham.

Mother: Stanley Ann Dunham Soetoro

Stanley Ann Dunham was born on November 29, 1942 at Fort Leavenworth, 
Kansas, while her father was serving in the U.S. Army. She was named after 
her father, who gave his daughter and only child his name because he had 
wanted a boy. She was known as Stanley as a child and teenager and endured 
the expected teasing over this indignity, but dutifully lugged the name 
through high school, apologizing for it each time she introduced herself in 
a new town. By college, she had started introducing herself as Ann.

Dunham spent her teenage years in Seattle and Mercer Island, Washington. 
In 1960, after she graduated from high school, the Dunham family moved to 
Hawaii so that her parents could pursue further business opportunities in 
the new state, and she enrolled at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. There 
she met Barack Obama, Sr., a student from Kenya and the school's first 
African student, during a Russian language class. She married him on 
February 2, 1961 in Maui, Hawaii despite some parental opposition to the 
marriage from both sides. Obama Sr.'s other wife, Kezia, granted her 
consent for him to marry a second wife, in keeping with tribal custom, 
though Ann Dunham would not find out that her new husband was already 
married until later. Dunham was three months pregnant at the time of her 
marriage.

On August 4, 1961, at age 18, she gave birth to her first child, Barack 
Obama II. Obama Sr. completed his degree, and graduated from the 
University of Hawaii in June 1962 and was offered a scholarship to study in 
New York City with which he could have supported his family, but he 
declined it preferring to attend the more prestigious Harvard University. 
He left for Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he would begin graduate study 
at Harvard in the fall. Ann filed for divorce in Honolulu in January 1964. 
Obama Sr. did not contest, and the divorce was granted. Obama Sr. received 
a Masters degree (MA) in economics from Harvard in 1965 and only saw his 
son again once, in 1971, when Barack was ten years old. After Obama Sr. 
died in 1982, Ann Dunham visited Kenya.





Dunham met an Indonesian student, Lolo Soetoro (ca. 1936-1987), at the 
East-West Center on the University of Hawaii campus. They married in 1966 
or 1967 and moved with six-year-old Barack to Jakarta, Indonesia, after the 
unrest surrounding the ascent of Suharto, where Soetoro worked as a 
government relations consultant with Mobil Corporation, the US-based 
international petroleum company. Soetoro and Dunham had a daughter, Maya 
Kassandra Soetoro, on August 15, 1970. In Indonesia, Dunham enriched her 
son's education with correspondence courses in English, recordings of 
Mahalia Jackson, and speeches by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. She 
sent the young Obama back to Hawaii rather than having him stay in Asia 
with her, though the decision was painful for her. Madelyn Dunham's job as 
a vice-president at the Bank of Hawaii helped pay the steep tuition at 
Punahou School, with some assistance from a scholarship.


In the 1970s, Dunham wished to return to work, but Soetoro wanted more 
children. She once said that he became more American as she became more 
Javanese. Ann Dunham left Soetoro in 1972, returning to Hawaii and 
reuniting with her son Barack for several years. Soetoro and Dunham saw 
each other periodically in the 1970s when Dunham returned to Indonesia for 
her fieldwork but did not live together again. They divorced in 1980, at 
which time she began using the name Ann Dunham Sutoro, with a modern 
spelling of her former husband's surname.





Dunham was not estranged from either ex-husband, and encouraged her 
children to feel connected to their fathers. She returned to graduate 
school in Honolulu in 1974, while raising Barack and Maya. When Dunham 
returned to Indonesia for field work in 1977 with Maya, Barack chose not to 
go, preferring to finish high school in the United States.


Having been a weaver, Dunham was interested in village industries, 
therefore moved to Yogyakarta, the center of Javanese handicrafts. In 1992 
she earned a Ph.D. in anthropologyfrom the University of Hawaii, under the 
supervision of Prof. Alice Dewey, with a dissertation titled Peasant 
blacksmithing in Indonesia: surviving and thriving against all odds. Dunham 
then pursued a career in rural development championing women's work and 
microcredit for the world's poor, with Indonesia's oldest bank, the United 
States Agency for International Development, the Ford Foundation, Women's 
World Banking, and as a consultant in Pakistan. She mingled with leaders 
from organizations supporting Indonesian human rights, women's rights, and 
grass-roots development.


In 1994, Ann was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and uterine cancer; she 
moved back to Hawaii to live near her widowed mother. She died there in 
1995 at the age of 52. Following a memorial service at the University of 
Hawaii, Barack and his sister, Maya, spread Ann's ashes in the Pacific 
Ocean on the south side of Oahu at Lanai Lookout. Obama scattered his 
grandmother Madelyn's ashes in the same spot on December 23, 2008.


Stepfather: Lolo Soetoro

Lolo Soetoro also known as Lolo Soetoro Mangunharjo or Mangundikardjo, (new 
spelling: Lolo Sutoro) was born c. 1935 in Bandung and died 1987 in 
Jakarta. He was the stepfather of Barack Obama and a native of Indonesia. 
Soetoro was the ninth out of ten children of Martodihardjo who hailed from 
Yogyakarta. During the Indonesian National Revolution (c. 1946) when 
Indonesia won independence from the Dutch, Soetoro's father and eldest 
brother were killed, after which the Dutch army burned down the family's 
home. Soetoro fled with his mother into the countryside to survive.

He obtained his bachelor's degree in Geography from Gajah Mada University, 
Yogyakarta. He later obtained a scholarship from his workplace to study for 
a master's degree at theUniversity of Hawaii, where he met Barack Obama's 
mother, Ann Dunham, also a student. Around 1966 or 1967 Soetoro and Dunham 
married and Soetoro returned to Indonesia when it called home its citizens 
who were studying abroad. About a year later, Dunham and six-year-old 
Barack followed Soetoro back to Indonesia, where the family took up 
residence in Menteng Dalam, Jakarta. In 1970 Soetoro and Dunham had a 
daughter, Maya.


After returning to Indonesia, Soetoro first worked for the army as a 
geologist and then took a job as a government relations consultant with 
Mobil Oil. Obama describes Soetoro as well-mannered, even-tempered, and 
easy with people and writes about the struggles he perceived Soetoro had to 
deal with after he returned to Indonesia from Hawaii.


During their years together in Indonesia, Ann Dunham became increasingly 
interested in the country's culture, while Soetoro became more Western in 
his outlook. She left Soetoro in 1972, returning to Hawaii and reuniting 
with her son, who had returned from Indonesia in 1971 to attend school. 
Soetoro and Dunham saw each other periodically in the 1970s but did not 
live together again. They were divorced in 1980.


After the divorce, Soetoro married Erna Kustina. She bore him two children, 
Yusuf Aji Soetoro (b. 1981) and Rahayu Nurmaida Soetoro (b. 1984).


Soetoro was much more of a free spirit than a devout Muslim, according to 
former friends and neighbors. Soetoro died of a liver ailment in 1987 at 
age 52, and was buried in Tanah Kusir Cemetery, South Jakarta.



Half-sister: Maya Kassandra Soetoro-Ng

Maya Kassandra Soetoro-Ng, born August 15, 1970 in Jakarta, Indonesia, is 
an American high school history teacher and university instructor in 
Hawaii. Like her brother, Soetoro attended the private Punahou School in 
Hawaii. She is an alumna of Barnard College in Manhattan, New York. She 
received an M.A. degree in secondary language studies and an M.A. degree in 
English from New York University and a Ph.D degree in international 
comparative education from the University of Hawaii.

In 2003 Soetoro married Konrad Ng of Burlington, Ontario, Canada. Her 
husband is the Canadian-born son of Malaysian Chinese immigrants and an 
assistant professor at the University of Hawaii's Academy of Creative 
Media. Their daughter Suhaila was born in 2005. Konrad Ng is now a US 
citizen.


Grandparents: Madelyn Lee Payne Dunham and Stanley Armour Dunham

Barack Obama's maternal grandmother, born in 1922 and died on November 2, 
2008. She was a bank vice president in Hawaii.

Stanley Armour Dunham is grandfather of Barack Obama, born 1918, died 1992. 
He was kicked out of high school for punching the principal. With his 
marriage to Obama's grandmother, Dunham settled into a respectable life as 
a furniture salesman. But he never lost his itch for adventure, moving his 
family from Kansas to Texas to Washington state and finally to Hawaii.


Extended Family: Paternal Relations

The Obamas are members of the Luo, Kenya's third-largest ethnic group, 
which is part of a larger family of ethnic groups, collectively also known 
as Luo. This group belongs to theEastern Sudanic branch of the Nilo-Saharan 
phylum. The Obama family is largely concentrated in the western province of 
Nyanza.

Father: Barack Obama Sr.

Barack Obama Sr. was born in Kanyadhiang village, Rachuonyo District on the 
shores of Lake Victoria just outside Kendu Bay, Kenya, at the time a colony 
of the British Empire, and raised in the village of Nyang'oma Kogelo, Siaya 
District, Nyanza Province. His family are members of the Luo ethnic group. 
He was the son of Onyango Obama (c. 1895-1979) who had at least three 
wives; Barack Obama Sr. was the son of Akumu Habiba, the second wife. 
However, he was raised by Onyango's third wife, Sarah, after Akumu left her 
family and separated from her husband in 1945. Before working as a cook for 
missionaries in Nairobi, Onyango had travelled widely, enlisting in the 
British colonial forces and visiting Europe, India, and Zanzibar, where he 
converted from Roman Catholicism to Islam and took the name Hussein Onyango 
Obama. Although Obama Sr. was born into a Muslim family, he was an atheist 
before he came to the United States. Obama Sr. was married in 1954 at the 
age of eighteen, in a tribal ceremony to Kezia, with whom he had four 
children.

While still living near Kendu Bay, Obama Sr. went to Gendia Primary School 
and shifted to Ng'iya Intermediate School once his family relocated to 
Siaya District. From 1950 to 1953, he studied at Maseno National School, an 
exclusive Christian boarding school in Maseno that is run by the Anglican 
Church of Kenya. The head teacher, B.L. Bowers, described Obama Sr. in his 
records as "very keen, steady, trustworthy and friendly. Concentrates, 
reliable and out-going."

Obama Sr. received a scholarship in economics through a program organized 
by nationalist leader Tom Mboya. The program offered Western educational 
opportunities to outstanding Kenyan students. At the age of 23, Obama Sr. 
enrolled at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, leaving behind a pregnant 
Kezia and their infant son. He had turned away from Islam and become an 
atheist by the time he moved to the United States. On 2 February 1961, 
Obama Sr. married fellow student Ann Dunham in Maui, Hawaii though she 
would not find out that her new husband was already married until much 
later. Obama Sr.'s and Dunham's son, Barack Obama II, was born on August 4, 
1961. Dunham left school to care for the baby, while Obama Sr. completed 
his degree. He graduated from the University of Hawaii in June 1962, 
leaving shortly thereafter to travel to Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he 
would begin graduate study at Harvard University in the fall. Later that 
summer, Dunham and the year-old baby Barack stopped to visit her friends in 
Mercer Island, Washington, the Seattle suburb where she had grown up, 
before joining Obama Sr. in Cambridge. However, mother and son soon 
returned to Seattle, where she enrolled at the University of Washington. 
Dunham, missing her family, then moved back to Hawaii and filed for divorce 
in Honolulu in January 1964. Obama Sr. did not contest, and the divorce was 
granted. He visited his son only once, in 1971, when Barack was 10 years 
old.


While at Harvard, Obama Sr. met an American-born teacher named Ruth 
Nidesand. She followed him to Kenya when he returned there after he 
received a master's degree in economics from Harvard in 1965. Nidesand 
eventually became his third wife and had two children with him before they 
divorced.





On his return to Kenya, Obama Sr. was hired by an oil company and then 
served as an economist in the Ministry of Transport, and later became 
senior economist in the Kenyan Ministry of Finance. Obama Sr.'s life then 
took a tailspin into drinking and poverty, from which he never recovered. 
Obama Sr. lost both legs in an automobile collision, and subsequently lost 
his job. He died in 1982, at the age of 46, in a car crash in Nairobi. 
Obama Sr. is buried in at the village of Nyang'oma Kogelo, Siaya District, 
Kenya. His funeral was attended by ministers Robert Ouko, Oloo Aringo and 
other prominent political figures.






Stepmothers, half-sisters and half-brothers

Barack Obama Sr. was a polygamist and had three wifes. After leaving Kenya 
and hist pregnant first wife to come to the United States, he married Ann 
Dunham who was unaware of his first wife. After divorcing Dunham, he met 
Ruth Ndesjando, born Nidesand, and married her. In addition to President 
Obama, Barack Obama Sr. fathered six other sons and a daughter.

Extended Family of Michelle Obama

Her family is of African American heritage, descendents of Africans of 
theAmerican Colonial Era. Michelle Obama's family history traces back from 
slavery to Reconstruction to the Great Migration North. Some of Michelle's 
relatives still reside in South Carolina. Michelle's earliest known 
relative is her great-great grandfather Jim Robinson, born in the 1850s, 
who was an American slave on the Friendfield plantation in South Carolina. 
The family believes that after the Civil War he remained a Friendfield 
plantation sharecropper for the rest of his life and that he was buried 
there in an unmarked grave.

Jim had two sons, Gabriel and Fraser, Michelle Obama's great-grandfather. 
Fraser had an arm amputated as a result of a boyhood injury. He worked as a 
shoemaker, newspaper salesman and in a lumber mill and was married to 
Rosella Cohen. Carrie Nelson, Gabriel Robinson's daughter, now 80, is the 
oldest living Robinson and the keeper of family lore. At least three of 
Michelle Obama's great-uncles served in the military of the United States.

    Craig Robinson

        Michelle Obama's brother, born 1962. He is head coach of men's
        basketball at Oregon State University.

    Fraser Robinson III

        Michelle Obama's father, born 1935, died 1991, married Michelle's
        mother, in 1960. Robinson was a pump worker at the City of Chicago
        water plant.

    Marian Shields Robinson

        Michelle Obama's mother (birthname Marian Shields, born July 1937),
        now widowed, was formerly a secretary at Spiegel catalog and a
        bank.

Distant Relations

The further back one traces the family tree of any one person in the world, 
the more distant relations can be found between seemingly unrelated people. 
The average six degrees of separation of any two living people in the 
world, as found by Milgram, may have their counterpart in genealogy.

Barack Obama's Irish links to the Kearney family from Moneygall Co. Offaly 
came to light last year, apart from the obvious interest of a link to a US 
presidential candidate, the story of the Kearney family of Moneygall is a 
fascinating story in itself. The Kearney family history, as researched by 
Eneclann, is interesting, because it illustrates over five generations, a 
family history that was not untypical in Ireland, but which we don't often 
consider as a typical emigrant story. The Kearney family, were probably 
Gaelic Irish in origin, based on the family name, and the probable place of 
origin is Tipperary. They were Church of Ireland, and they were skilled 
artisans, who prosper in the 18th Century. One branch of the family do 
extremely well; Michael Kearney, (Obama's 6th great-granduncle) becomes 
embroiled in the Dublin city politics of the day and John Kearney who would 
be a distant cousin of Obama's, went on to become the Provost of Trinity 
College Dublin, and later Bishop of Ossory. As the 19th Century progresses 
the family line from which Obama descends fails to prosper and they 
emigrate to the US.




Via this link, it was found that both Barack Obama and his vice president 
Joe Biden are distant cousins. Catherine Goodnight Dunham is one of the 
links between Barack Obama and Harry S. Truman. She was Obama's 
great-great-great-great grandmother, and her first cousin once removed was 
Rachael Goodnight Young, Truman's great-grandmother.




Ironically, it was also found that Obama is also distantly related to 
George W. Bush as well as Dick Cheney.


